# Multi-qubit discriminator package

This package contains tools designed to help with user analysis of multi-qubit systems. 
There are two graphical user interfaces (GUIs), a multi-qubit discriminator method to run readout 
discrimination on existing readout data, and a dataclass to store the results of each discriminator run. 
These tools are explained in detail below. 



## Independent multi-qubit discriminator 

IQ blob data from a single qubit can be run through the `discriminator` method in the `analysis` package of `qualang_tools`.
For a multi-qubit system, it may be simpler to use the `independent_multi_qubit_discriminator` method from this 
package. 

### Example usage

```python 

IQ_results: array-like object # e.g. [[ig0, qg0, ie0, qe0], [ig1, qg1, ie1, qe1]]

results_dataclasses = independent_multi_qubit_discriminator(
    IQ_results, b_print=False, b_plot=False, text=False
)
```

Running this returns a list of dataclasses (see below) which box together the inputs and outputs of the discriminator for each qubit.
This allows for easy use of the data, especially with the GUIs. 


## Results dataclass

The results dataclass (`_DiscriminatorDataclass`) holds the inputs (i.e. the IQ blob data) and outputs (i.e. discriminator results such as 
fidelities, rotation angle, and threshold) of the discrimination run, as well as some helper methods for ease of use. This class can be used directly, but its 
main use is to wrap the data together so the GUIs are more stable. The `independent_multi_qubit_discriminator` method returns one dataclass per qubit. These lists are then
used by both GUIs in the package. 

## Active reset GUI

NOTE: we could rename this as it is not just for active reset. 

The active reset GUI is a tool used for comparing the results of different qubit reset approaches. The rotated IQ blobs are displayed, along with other
important information about the outcome of the experiments such as the fidelities and rotation angles. The time taken for each reset approach is also displayed, but this information must be added 
to each of the dataclasses. 

The GUI takes a dictionary of the form `{name: results_list, name2: results_list2}` where `name` is the name of the type of reset used to generate the 
`results_list` via the `independent_multi_qubit_discriminator` function. The `launch_reset_gui` function is included to take care of starting the Qt application through which the GUI runs. 

### Example usage

```python 
reset_dict = {
    'Passive reset': results_0, # list of results_dataclasses generated by independent_multi_qubit_discriminator
    'Active reset': results_1,
    'Two-threshold active reset': results_2,
}

program = launch_reset_gui(reset_dict) 
```

## Discriminator GUI

The discriminator GUI can be used to display and visualise information about each qubit's readout as well as statistics about the array of qubits. 
The first tab of the GUI displays a list of the qubits, ordered by their readout fidelity (mean of GG and EE fidelities). It also displays statistics about the array of quits. Information and plots of individual
qubits are on the second tab, and can be accessed by double-clicking on the relevant qubit in the list of the dashboard tab. Alternatively, you can switch to the qubits tab and select the relevant qubit from the 
dropdown list. A helper function, `launch_discriminator_gui`, is included. This takes care of launching the Qt application. 


### Example usage 

```python 
results_list = independent_multi_qubit_discriminator(data) # data is in the format described above in the independent multi-qubit discriminator section

program = launch_discriminator_gui(results_list) 
```




